Chole bhature is a an all time favourite Punjabi dish. Choley bhature can be eaten in breakfast as well as in lunch. Chole bhature is a combination of chickpea curry served with deep fried flour pooris. Here is a simple recipe.

Serves : 2
Total time : 1 hr + fermentation time
Calories per serving: 475

Ingredients:

Bhature
1 cup Flour (Maida)
1/2 cup Suji (Semolina)
1/4 cup Dahi (Curd)
1/4 tsp Baking Soda
1/4 tsp salt
1/4 tsp Sugar
Water to make dough

For Chole:
1 cup boiled chole
1 big onion grated
1 tsp Anardana/ pomegranate Seeds
1 tsp giner paste
1 tsp garlic paste
1/4 tsp Turmeric
1 tsp Coriander powder
3 medium tomatoes
1/2 tsp Garam Masala
1 tblsp Green Coriander chopped

For tempering
2 tsp Ghee
1 small onion
1 small tomato
1 green chilly
1 tsp Chana Masala
1/4 tsp Red Chilly Powder
1 tblsp Oil
	Choley Bhature


    To Make Bhature :Soak suji in 1/2 cup water for 15 - 20 minutes to make it soft.
    Then in a mixing bowl add all the ingredients under the bhature section along with soaked suji and mix well. Then little by little add water and knead a soft dough.
    Now take a fresh bowl and transfer the dough in it and apply a thin layer of refined oil on the dough. Cover the bowl with a cling sheet and keep it aside for fermentation for 2 - 3 hrs in a warm place. Once it is ready it will be double in size.
    Now remove the cling sheet and press the dough in the center to remove all the excess air and knead again.
    To make the bhature, heat the oil and take a small ball of the dough and roll like puri but this needs to be kept thicker than poori. Fry like poori till both sides are golden brown. Serve with chole and mix pickle.
    Remember 1. Heat the oil well so that bhaturas do not absorb extra oil and they fluff well. 2. Drain the bahturas on a tissue paper to drain out excess oil.

    To Make chole :After the chole have boiled separate the chole from the water. Keep the cooking liquid for later use.
    Grind together garlic, ginger and anardana in a grinder.
    Heat oil in a kadhai and add the grated onion. Stir fry till little golden brown. Then add turmeric, coriander powder and the grinded masala.
    Fry for a 1 min and then add finely chopped tomatoes. Cook it till the masala leaves the side.
    Now add only the choley and let it simmer for 5 - 7 minutes. Finally add some chole liquid and further cook for 10 minutes.
    When the chole get be thick add the garam masala and chopped green coriander.
    Now take a separate pan for tempering and add 2 tsp of ghee. When it gets hot add cubed onion and tomato pieces. Cook for 15 secs and then add green chilly and the chana masala and red chilly powder. Mix well ensuring that red chilly does not get burnt and then add to the chole and mix well.
    Transfer the choley to a serving dish and garnish with a piece of lemon split up into 4 pieces and finely chopped corainder leaves.
